---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2023-06-16
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---


$N_{\infty}$-operads and associahedra
======

June 16, 2023

Defining an $N_{\infty}$-operad using transfer systems
------


This time, we want a combinatorial understanding of  $N_{\infty}$-operads in a suitable $G$-equivariant setting. The goal is establishing, for $G=C_{p^n}$, a one-one correspondence between the natural order on the collection of $N_{\infty}$-operads and the poset structure of Stasheff's $(n+1)$-associahedron, $\mathcal{A}_{n+1}$. This is work by Balchin-Barnes-Roitzheim.
 

Instead of the traditional way, as mentioned right at the article's outset, we want to understand $N_{\infty}$-operads differently, a combinatorial way. The key player is the following result that was conjectured by Blumberg-Hill [1], and proved by a series of works by Bonventre-Pereira; Gutiérrez-White; and Rubin, independently. I just state the result with getting into the details of the proof


$\mathbf{Theorem} \\ 1.1. \\ $

$$\text{Ho}\left(N_{\infty}\text{-op} \right) \xrightarrow{\sim} \mathfrak{Ind}$$ *where* $N_{\infty}\text{-op}$ *is the category of* $N_{\infty}$*-operads,  and* $\mathfrak{Ind}$ *is the category of indexing systems with poset structure.*

Now we'll see what *indexing systems* are next.

For that they're some machinery that we introduce first.

$\mathbf{Def} \\ 1.2. \\ $
A categorical coefficient system is a contravariant functor
$$\underline{\mathcal{C}} : \text{Orb}_{G} \rightarrow \mathcal{Cat}$$

from the orbit category of $G$ to the category of small categories.

Typically, there's an abuse of notation by omitting the word *categorical*.

We have the notion of a *symmetric monoidal* coefficient system, which is a contravariant functor from the orbit category of $G$ to the category of symmetric monoidal categories and strong symmetric monoidal functors.

The category of interest for us is the coefficient system of finite G-sets.

$\mathbf{Def} \\ 1.3. \\ $
Suppose $\underline{\mathcal{Set}}$ is the symmetric monoidal coefficient system of finite sets, with $\underline{\mathcal{Set}}(H) = \mathcal{Set}^{H}$. The symmetric monoidal operation is the disjoint union.


Now the idea is to associate to every $N_{\infty}$-operad a sub coefficient system of $\underline{\mathcal{Set}}$. 

What follows next is the definition of an indexing system using all the machinery we've introduced.


$\mathbf{Def} \\ 1.4. \\ $
An indexing system is a sub symmetric monoidal coefficient system that's closed under subobjects and self-induction.

Now the latter condition, for a full sub symmetric monoidal coefficient system $\mathcal{Z}$ translates to the following

$$ H/H' \in \mathcal{Z}(H) \\ \wedge K \\ \in \mathcal{Z}(H') \Rightarrow H \times_{H'} K \in \mathcal{Z}(H)$$  

We now compare indexing systems to transfer systems [].


$\mathbf{Lemma} \\ 1.5. \\ $
*An indexing system determines (and is also determined by) a set* $\mathcal{Z}_{H}$ *for* $H \leq G$, *with subgroups of $H$ satisfying the following axioms:*

* $H/H \in \mathcal{Z}(H)$

* $H/H' \in \mathcal{Z}(H) \Rightarrow gHg^{-1}/gH'g^{-1} \in g\mathcal{Z}g^{-1}$

* $H/H' \in \mathcal{Z}(H) \\ \wedge \\ H'/K \in \mathcal{Z}(h') \Rightarrow H/K \in \mathcal{Z}(H)$

* $H/H' \in \mathcal{Z}(H) \Rightarrow K\(K \cap H') \in \mathcal{K} \\ , \forall \\ K \leq H$


*All this data is referred to as a transfer system.*

Alternatively, we've the following defintion.

$\mathbf{Def} \\ 1.6. \\ $
For a transfer system $\mathcal{Z}(H)$ we can define a set abstractly 

$$\\{ N_{H'}^{H} \mid H/H' \in \mathcal{Z}(H),  H \leq  G \\}$$

We call these out *norm maps*.

Using all these, now we've an alternate description of an $N_{infty}$-operad that I state next.


$\mathbf{Corollary} \\ 1.6. \\ $

$G$ *is a finite group. An* $N_{\infty}$ *operad for* $G$, *upto homotopy is defined as the data of the set* $X = \\{N_{H}^{K} \mid 1 \leq K < H \leq G \\}$ *satisfying the following (and all conjugates thereof)*

*  $N_{H}^{K} \in X \\ \wedge M < H \Rightarrow N_{K \cap M}^{M} \in X$       *(Restriction Axiom aka* $\mathfrak{RA}$)
*  $N_{L}^{K} \in X \\ \wedge N_{H}^{K} \in X \Rightarrow N_{L}^{H} \in X$      *(Composition Axiom aka* $\mathfrak{CA}$)



It's important to note that the notation choice makes sense so that the Mackey functor of an algebra $A$ over an $N_{\infty}$-operad $\mathcal{O}$ has multiplicative norm maps $N_{K}^{H}: \pi_{0}^{K}(A) \rightarrow \pi_{0}^{H}(A)$.


The case of $G= C_{p^n}$
------

We now look at the case of interest, i.e. when $G= C_{p^n}$ where $p$ is a prime. 

The goal is to understand the sequence $\\{ |N_{\infty}(C_{p^n}) | \\}$



 


You can have many headings.
======

References
------
\begin{itemize}
  \item
\end{itemize}  
